All right.
Now let's get animated.
So first off we're going to grab all of these layers that are creating the spear and we're going to
put them into a folder and we're going to call that folder speir
next.
Let's turn off our sketch folder so we can no longer see the sketch once we've done that.
Let's change the size of our canvas the way you do that is by coming up to image then coming down to
canvas size hitting that.
Now you see you're given the option for width and height.
So we want to change it to pixels and now will give us the width and height in pixels.
Now we want to create a perfect square.
So what we're want to do is we're going to make this a perfect 600 by 600
and what that will do is it'll change the size of our canvas but it won't affect our character.
Next let's make sure that the background color is white.
Ok then we're going to hit OK.
And then we want to proceed.
And I can see a change the size of our canvas to a perfect square 600 by 600.
Now when you're creating your own character it doesn't necessarily have to be 600 by 600 You just want
to make sure that they're on a perfect square canvas.
All right.
Now we want to save this as a frame.
Now this is just going to be the standing frame.
He's not going to be doing any action.
And so what we're going to do is we're going to come up to file then save as.
And then we want to create a new folder or create a new folder and we're going to call this folder standing
Brett.
Now let's go into that folder.
And now we're going to save this as frame one.
So we're just going to put one for frame 1 and then we can save it OK great.
Now before we get into creating our walk cycle we want to make sure that everything is correct on our
character and there's nothing we want to change because once you start animating it's very hard to change
something on your character once there's already up to like three to 10 different frames of that character.
So we want to make sure that everything looks good on our character and there's nothing we want change.
I think it looks pretty good but I'm noticing one mistake and that mistake is down here at his feet
his feet are not level.
So if he were to be standing on the ground this leg would be higher up than this one.
So first what we need to do is we need to grab a line from our ruler and we're going to make sure that
those feet become level.
Now the way you grab this line from your ruler is up here at the top.
Now if your ruler is not showing up at the top of your page what you need to do is you need to come
up to view and then come down and just make sure that your rulers are checked.
Once you've done that just come up to your ruler and click it and drag out a line.
So bring that all the way down to his feet and we're going to bring it to his higher foot.
So right about there now let's go ahead and zoom in.
So as you can see this foot is way off from the other foot.
So what we need to do is we need to go into our body layer and we're going to go to the main body piece
which is this one right here.
Then using the arm Marki tool we're going to select just his foot like so.
Next we're going to do is using our grab and move tool and then using the arrow keys on our keyboard
we're just going to nudge that up until it lines up with this level line.
Great.
That looks good.
Now we can unselect out of that selection.
Awesome.
So now that's fixed now to get this line out of here.
All you have to do is switch back to your grab and move tool.
And when you see this little guy appear above the line you just grab it and drag it back up to the top
and it disappears.
Now that we've made that change let's go ahead and resave this out with the fixes.
So all we have to do is go file and save and an even quicker way to do that is you can go control as
if you're on a Windows or command as if you're on a Mac and that will automatically save your image.
All right.
Now let's move on to creating our walk cycle.
So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to add a layer above our body now and this layer
we are going to sketch out the legs of our character in its new position.
So if you remember the first position of the walk cycle is going to be the contact which is means that
the legs are going to be spread apart and touching the ground.
So it will look like this.
This will be our first frame.
So let's go ahead and sketch some legs in.
Now these are going to be the final legs.
They're just going to be used as a reference to create over.
So you just want to make sure that his heel is touching the ground right about there.
And then for the back leg come back like this
awesome.
So you saw how easy that was if you did the assignment from the last lecture.
This should be somewhat simple for you.
All right.
Next hour we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and create these legs now.
This leg right here on the right side is going to be pretty simple.
What we're going to do is we're going to come back down to our body layer then switching over to our
Lasso tool.
We're just going to draw a selection around this leg then we're just going to slice right through the
center of his drawstring like So next we're going to use our Transform Tool to rotate and position our
laig.
Now it may not line up perfectly with your sketch and that's all right.
Great.
So enter now as you can see that was pretty simple.
All we really want to do now at this point is we're going to use our brush tool and then we're going
to select our skin tone and we're just going to fill in some of these empty spots that we missed.
Great.
Now that we've done that let's add a new layer and using our Polygonum Lasso tool which is the Lasso
tool that makes straight lines.
We're going to trace out this leg.
Now like I said sometimes you can reuse body parts and just rotate them and reposition them.
But sometimes you have to completely recreate new body parts.
Now let's go ahead and let's fill that in with our color.
Awesome.
Now you can see we have two legs in the way.
So what we want to do is we're going to come back down to our original body layer and using our Lasso
tool we can go ahead and make a selection around the old leg.
And then we can just hit delete and it will delete that.
Awesome.
Now let's turn off our sketch layer and see how that looks.
All right.
Well as you can see this leg looks way too big.
So we're going to go ahead and fix that real quick so using our Lasso tool we're just going to cut away
some more of this
make sure you're on the layer that the leg is on and then hit delete.
All right.
Great.
That looks better.
Now the last thing I want to do before we're finished with this frame is I want to go ahead and animate
the arms.
So we're going to start with his back arm his back arm is already on its own layer.
So we're just going to select his back arm layer along with the spear folder.
So holding down control or shift and selecting the spare folder along with it then we'll use the Transform
Tool to rotate and reposition his arm.
Now this part of his walk we're going to have the arm come down a little bit
so about there should be good.
Just make sure that the edge of the arm and the shoulder line up to enter great.
Now lastly let's go ahead and let's animate his other arm sort of come up to our body layer because
that's what the arm is attached to and using her Lasso tool.
We're going to select that arm
then we're going to use the Transform Tool.
We're going to rotate that arm down like so and we can reposition it if it doesn't go right into place
you can use the arrow keys on your keyboard to reposition it right about there should be good.
Enter All right now we can unselect out of that.
Now I'm kind of noticing that these legs aren't very level and I'm pretty sure this leg is still a little
bit too big.
So if we grab a ruler line and bring it down you can see they're pretty far off.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to shrink this leg down so I'll come up to the layer then
using the transform tool.
I'm going to grab the corner at the bottom and hold down Shift while I do this.
That way it keeps its proportions.
Then I'm just going to shrink it down just a little bit about there should be good.
Enter right.
That a much better.
All right.
You just finished the first frame of your walk cycle.
Now let's go ahead and let's save this out in a walk cycle folder.
So we'll come up to File Save As and let's go back to our original folder and create a new folder and
we'll call this one walk cycle.
Then let's open that and let's save this as frame one for the walk cycle.
So for short we'll just put one hit save.
OK.